---
layout: post
title: Learning RAG...
description: ...in order to improve our chatbot products
date: 2025-01-20
tags: [career, technical, programming, growth]

# display_tags: ['life', 'career', 'technical', 'programming', 'project', 'AWS', 'growth']


comments: true
published: true
---
Despite working on chatbot for almost 2 years, I have not truly implemented any RAG pipeline into the production chatbot system. Instead, it has mainly been more of a rule based chatbot.

The excuse I have so far for my failure to incorporate RAG? No time and why break something that isn't broken.

So far, the rule based method has been implemented rather successfully and so far there is little to no complaints. The implementation method is rather system - upload a csv file to S3 and the backend system would automatically update the content being accessed by our users.

And to be frank, I truly do not have the time to do it as the stakeholders are constantly working to implement something new quickly. To achieve that, rule based is often faster as we do not need to fine tune and run numerous experiments to account for all posibilities. With rule based method, we could control the testing and deal with the actual use case. For anything beyond that, we could control the output especially in the case where life and death is an actual issue.

I can no longer allow myself those excuses anymore. How could I grow then if I keep giving excuses?

I finally took the first step and learn the basic technical details of RAG from a few sources. Before that, I do have a general idea:

1. Store working documents somewhere
2. Convert the documents into vector embeddings
3. Given a prompt, search for relevant documents
4. Given relevant documents and prompt, answer the question

